feat: add documentation on how to setup an AWS machine cloud (#68)
charmed-hpc/docs: howto/initialize-cloud-environment.md

0        started  x.x.x.x      juju-e63b38-0  ubuntu@24.04
:::

::::

::::{tab-item} Amazon Web Services (AWS)
:sync: aws

To use AWS as the machine cloud for your Charmed HPC cluster, you will need to have:

* [Installed the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)
* [Authenticated into the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-authentication.html)
* [Adjusted quotas for suitable EC2 instance types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/latest/instancetypes/ec2-instance-quotas.html)

To decide on suitable instance types, it may be useful to refer to [Amazon EC2 Instance types](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/).

> A typical Charmed HPC deployment will use a mix of high-performance and GPU-accelerated compute instances for cluster compute
> nodes, and general purpose instances for other node types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One AWS, a typical Charmed HPC deployment will likely use a mix of HPC Optimized and Accelerated Computing instances for cluster compute
nodes, and general purpose instances for other node types.
```

Reviewer: The phrasing here was somewhat tuned to the unit types on Azure - these are corresponding types names for AWS.

Juju requires an access key and a secret access key to authenticate against AWS, which allows it to create and manage
the controller instance.

First, create a new AWS user named `Juju`, and a new AWS group called `JujuGroup` for that user:

:::{code-block} shell
aws iam create-user --user-name Juju
aws iam create-group --group-name JujuGroup
aws iam add-user-to-group --user-name Juju --group-name JujuGroup
:::

Then, attach the required resource permissions to `JujuGroup`:

:::{code-block} shell
aws iam attach-group-policy --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEC2FullAccess --group-name JujuGroup
aws iam attach-group-policy --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/IAMFullAccess --group-name JujuGroup
:::

:::{note}
For simplicity's sake, these instructions configure the `Juju` user with full administrator access
to the EC2 and IAM resources. If you want to further restrict the permissions of the `Juju` user,
refer to [Define custom IAM permissions with customer managed policies][define-iam-policy].
Furthermore, [Refine permissions in AWS using last accessed information][perms] gives more information about how to
determine the correct subset of permissions for a managed policy.

> :::

Reviewer: Smart to add this in, and it works well as a note here!

After creating the required user, generate the access key for the `Juju` user using the following command:

:::{code-block} shell
aws iam create-access-key --user-name Juju
:::

Take note of the secret access key and the access key ID, since those are the values required to authenticate
Juju.

[define-iam-policy]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_create.html
[perms]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_last-accessed.html

### Add AWS cloud credentials to Juju

To make your AWS credentials known to Juju, run:

:::{code-block} shell
juju add-credential aws
:::

> This will start a script where you will be asked:

Reviewer: Is it a script or more a set of prompts? If a script, maybe we can show the full script here. If it's just a set of prompts, might be better to tweak the wording.

Author: Replaced "script" with "set of prompts"

* `credential-name` — your choice of name that will help you identify the credential set, e.g. `my-aws-credential`.
* `region` — a default region that is most convenient to deploy your controller and applications, e.g. `us-east-1`. Note that credentials are not region-specific.
* `access-key` — The access key ID generated in the previous section, typically a 20-character alphanumeric string.
* `secret-key` — The secret access key generated in the previous section, typically an alphanumeric string with format `xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx/xxxxxxxx`.

  For security reasons, characters will NOT be displayed when entering this field. However, any input

>   (like the paste action) will still be captured by the script, even if it doesn't look like it.

Reviewer: Might be worth making this a warning - it blends into the rest of the text a bit and could get overlooked as currently displayed.

Once the credentials have been added successfully, a message similar to the following will be displayed:

:::{code-block} shell
Credential "my-aws-credential" added locally for cloud "aws".
:::

### Bootstrap AWS cloud controller

With your credentials added, the Juju cloud environment can now be initialized or "bootstrapped". To bootstrap, first set
the default region for deploying AWS instances, including the controller itself. Refer to [Regions, Availability Zones, and Local Zones][regions]

> for an overview of available regions. To set the default region to US East (N. Virginia):

Reviewer: How does the region that's set here relate to the region that was chosen in the add-credential step above? Should they be aligned, does it not matter, etc? 

A small sentence about how this region does or does not relate to the above would help with clarity.

Author: I realized AWS users are not tied to a specific AWS region, so the `region` field in the credentials step can be left blank. I also changed the explanation of that field, which hopefully made it clear that the credentials region and the default region are independent.
